I checked out a branch
called asynchronous actions.
And that was mostly to get us back
to a firm starting ground again.
And there's just some subtle differences.
Cuz what happened before is we had to do
that line where we looked at the response
we saw, all right, if there's a response,
and that response has characters, so
on and so forth, right because we
wanted to make it generalizable,
we use fetch functionality, right?
Which meant that there was a certain
amount of leakiness to that abstraction.
We talked about the fact that
we could pass in a function.
We talked about a lot of things.
We had big hopes and aspirations.
We're gonna try a little bit
of a different approach,
kind of based on that thunk stuff
that we were talking about before.
What if we could dispatch an action and
say go fetch stuff?
This is what you need to do, and
then let the reducer handle all of that
setting the loading, so on and so forth.
So this is kind of checking out that
branch gives us another firm
starting place to start with.
And so we got the action type loading.
At this point, I am going back to just,
this is going to be a reducer for
managing characters, right?
We're gonna separate the asynchronous
parts of our application
from the synchronous state
management pieces, right?
We're just gonna separate them, that way,
they don't have to know about each other
which, in my argument,
will make more modular code.
But if you like the other approach,
you can use that one as well.
And there can be argument
why both can exist.
So we've got loading,
and we've got response,
complete an error, nothing dissimilar,
and I'm returning the entire state.
And what you'll see here is I'm
using use reducer right now, and
then we can pull just
the characters off of that state.
Now, what I would love to do is,
the fetch stuff isn't here yet.
What I would love to do is dispatch
an action that is a function
right, that can undo all
of the asynchronous and
synchronous, then just
patch the real action.
This is very similar to
how Reducer stan works,
instead we are going
to write it ourselves.
And what I would love you to
pay attention to is this,
we are gonna solve an asynchronous
problem, if you wanted one that did login,
okay, ke the same approach works.
This is simply to wrap this idea of
reducer with additional functionality
as we need it.
So we'll make a hook and we'll call it
const lets call it useThunkReducer.
And I alluded to before, there are ways
that you can make< there are hooks for
that that will load additional middleware.
We're just gonna do the simple possible
one, cuz it'll get really into the weeds,
otherwise.
And it'll have the exact
same API as useReducer,
cuz it's just gonna be
an abstraction on top of it.
It's gonna be a superset of features.
So I'll do reducer, and
I'll take an initialState,
And at the end of the day is going to,
like I said, it's an abstraction.
So go get state and
dispatch equals useReducer.
From whatever reducer they passed in, and
whatever initial state they passed in,
and that was the bottom of the file.
And then we'll return that state and
dispatch.
So all it does right now
is this know It basically
takes what we got from useReducer and
passes it through.
Remember when we wrote that first reducer
and all it did was take the state and
return the state?
That is effectively what we've done here.
What we wanna do is create
something over the dispatch
function that says, hey, if this is
a normal action, just like we had before,
yeah, yeah pass dispatch to do the thing.
If this is a function,
call the function, right?
Give it a copy of dispatch and say,
hey you take care of dispatch,
and whenever you are done
doing whatever you are doing,
you can go ahead and
dispatch actions yourself.
Right?
And so this is the whole
thunk thing that we're
talking about before.
Like I said, trying to explain a thunk
probably takes longer than actually
writing the code.
I aspire to prove that to you.
So what we'll do is, we will make a const
called, let's call it enhancedDispatch,
we could call a thunkDispatch,
you can call it whatever you want.
I'm gonna call it enhanceDispatch and
we'll take an action,
and again if we still
wanna take this no-op,
it would take the action and
it would dispatch the action, all right.
So so far we've given ourselves some
hooks in here where we can step in and
do some conditional logic above where
my cursor is highlighted right now.
But right now, its just taking
the action and dispatching it and
what our new asynchronous is gonna do is
that its going to, yeah, set up a reducer,
wrapDispatch and its enhanced version
where you can add an additional logic.
And them it will give them
state in this enhancedDispatch,
which in a normal streaming things
will just do the normal thing.
I could swap this out right now and
it would work.
But in here is where we can
start doing additional things.
Now if I wanted to log,
if I put a log in here, let's just do it.
Now, this works like useReducer
except it logs every
action that flows through it, right?
So you could do something like if
node environment is development,
log the action.
All right, that would do the trick right
there and it would log every single one.
Probably, you don't want that,
I mean, you might want that.
Or it might be some other flag or
something along those lines.
But we have an abstraction over
useReducer to do more complicated things.
What we're gonna do is say, hey,
if this action is actually a function,
pass it a copy of dispatch, and call it.
So we'll say,
I'm gonna pull in is function,
you could do type of equals
equals equals function as well.
And so we'll say if
IsFunction cuz give me call
the action regardless.
But if this action was actually a function
instead of an object, then what
we gonna do is we gonna call it like a
function and past the copy of a dispatch.
Otherwise, just do the normal thing.
And so now we actually have full
func support in our reducer, right?
A normal action is an object,
do the thing if we dispatched a function,
call the function with a copy dispatch and
let it do the thing.
So it's again a function
that returns a function.